h1. Preferences: CSS mode

p(alert-clock information). *Please note:* As of Textpattern CMS v4.3.0 the 'Automatic CSS mode' feature has been removed. The information is provided for historical legacy.

The Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) standard is a slim, powerful language that allows you to centralise site-wide control of content presentation. Everything from fonts and colours to sizes and positions can be governed through CSS.

Ordinarily CSS data appears in the <code>head</code> section of an HTML document, or is stored in a text file linked to the document. Modern browsers parse this data in advance of displaying a page, and then cache the data for use on subsequent pages or site visits. As such, CSS can greatly reduce the download size of web pages: just one of many improvements CSS formatting offers over older web design methods.

Textpattern offers two modes of maintaining style sheets for your pages:

# In 'Manual CSS' mode, you can create (or paste in) any style sheet information you like, right in the Textpattern interface. This allows for quick editing of styles without FTP uploading. Style sheets can be generated from by hand or by WYSIWYG website editors.
# In 'Automatic CSS' mode, style sheet editing is taken to a sophisticated new level, using an editing interface and organisational method intended to make CSS parameters more readable. Any existing style sheet can be 'poured' into the editing interface and modified indefinitely.

In Automatic mode, CSS files are classified as either _layout_ or _style_. Pages on a site can share or combine either type.

Layout files define large structural parameters, such as the number and size of columns on a page, headers and footers, etc.

Style files in turn govern parameters like typography, colour, and the finer methods of positioning (e.g. padding and margins and relationships between objects on a page) not defined in layout files.
